docs/source/examples/climaf_wps.rst, before:

.. _climaf_wps:

Example: CliMAF WPS
===================

In this example we are creating a Web Processing Service for CliMAF_.

Create WPS using Cookiecutter
-----------------------------

We create an initial WPS with Cookiecutter_ and the `bird-house/cookiecutter-birdhouse`_ WPS template.

Install Cookiecutter using Conda_::

  $ conda install -c conda-forge cookiecutter

Run Cookiecutter with the WPS template::

  $ cookiecutter https://github.com/bird-house/cookiecutter-birdhouse.git

Cookiecutter will ask you a few questions, here the answers for the CliMAF WPS::

  full_name [Full Name]: Mary Stuart
  email [your@email]: mary@stuart
  github_username [bird-house]: cp4cds
  project_name [Babybird]: CliMAF WPS Demo
  project_slug [climaf_wps_demo]: climafwps
  project_repo_name [climafwps]: climaf_wps_demo
  project_short_description [A Web Processing Service for Climate Data Analysis.]: A Web Processing Service for CliMAF.
  version [0.1.0]: 1.1.0
  Select open_source_license:
  1 - Apache Software License 2.0
  2 - MIT license
  3 - BSD license
  4 - ISC license
  5 - GNU General Public License v3
  Choose from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 [1]: 1
  http_port [5000]: 5000

A project folder ``climaf_wps_demo`` is created with a fully functional WPS and example processes.

Push this project now to `GitHub <https://help.github.com/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line/>`_.

You can find the result in our `CP4CDS <https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo>`_ GitHub project.


Add a CliMAF process
--------------------

We will add now a *time series plot* process based on CliMAF_ functionality to the WPS.

First, we need to add the ``climaf`` dependency to the existing Conda_ environment:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/environment.yml

Then we add a new Python module for a *time series plot* generation:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/climafwps/tsplot.py

We need to define a WPS process definition for the *time series plot* where we
describe the input and output parameters and provide a short documentation:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/climafwps/processes/wps_tsplot.py

You need to activate this process in the ``__init__`` module:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/climafwps/processes/__init__.py

You should extend the tests for the new ``tsplot`` process:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/tests/test_wps_caps.py

An initial Sphinx documentation is part of the WPS ( ``docs/`` ) and can be made
available on ReadTheDocs_.

Test CliMAF WPS
---------------

You can install and start the WPS using a ``Makefile``::

  $ make clean install
  $ make start

The service will be available at the URL:

  http://localhost:5000/wps

Check the documentation on ReadTheDocs_ for details.

Use Ansible for Deployment
--------------------------

We can deploy CliMAF WPS on a host using Ansible_.

First, you need to clone the Ansible playbook for WPS::

  $ git clone https://github.com/bird-house/ansible-wps-playbook.git
  $ cd ansible-wps-playbook

If Ansible is not installed you can bootstrap the installation::

  $ bash bootstrap.sh

To install CliMAF WPS you need to edit the ``custom.yml`` configration with
the approriate options, for example::

  ---
  # Configuration for CliMAF WPS
  wps_name: climafwps
  wps_repo: https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo.git
  wps_version: master
  wps_hostname: wps.demo
  wps_port: 80

Run Ansible with this configration using a ``Makefile``::

  $ make play

Check the documentation on ReadTheDocs_ for details.

There is a `online demo <https://bovec.dkrz.de/processes/list?wps=climaf>`_ availble with a deployed CliMAF WPS.


.. _Cookiecutter: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _`bird-house/cookiecutter-birdhouse`: https://github.com/bird-house/cookiecutter-birdhouse
.. _CliMAF: http://climaf.readthedocs.io/en/latest
.. _Conda: https://conda.io/docs/index.html
.. _ReadTheDocs: https://climaf-wps-demo.readthedocs.io/
.. _Ansible: http://ansible-wps-playbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html

Commit message:

added example with cmip5 archive

docs/source/examples/climaf_wps.rst, after:

.. _climaf_wps:

Example: CliMAF WPS
===================

In this example we are creating a Web Processing Service for CliMAF_.

Create WPS using Cookiecutter
-----------------------------

We create an initial WPS with Cookiecutter_ and the `bird-house/cookiecutter-birdhouse`_ WPS template.

Install Cookiecutter using Conda_::

  $ conda install -c conda-forge cookiecutter

Run Cookiecutter with the WPS template::

  $ cookiecutter https://github.com/bird-house/cookiecutter-birdhouse.git

Cookiecutter will ask you a few questions, here the answers for the CliMAF WPS::

  full_name [Full Name]: Mary Stuart
  email [your@email]: mary@stuart
  github_username [bird-house]: cp4cds
  project_name [Babybird]: CliMAF WPS Demo
  project_slug [climaf_wps_demo]: climafwps
  project_repo_name [climafwps]: climaf_wps_demo
  project_short_description [A Web Processing Service for Climate Data Analysis.]: A Web Processing Service for CliMAF.
  version [0.1.0]: 1.1.0
  Select open_source_license:
  1 - Apache Software License 2.0
  2 - MIT license
  3 - BSD license
  4 - ISC license
  5 - GNU General Public License v3
  Choose from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 [1]: 1
  http_port [5000]: 5000

A project folder ``climaf_wps_demo`` is created with a fully functional WPS and example processes.

Push this project now to `GitHub <https://help.github.com/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line/>`_.

You can find the result in our `CP4CDS <https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo>`_ GitHub project.


Add a CliMAF process
--------------------

We will add now a *time series plot* process based on CliMAF_ functionality to the WPS.

First, we need to add the ``climaf`` dependency to the existing Conda_ environment:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/environment.yml

Then we add a new Python module for a *time series plot* generation:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/climafwps/tsplot.py

We need to define a WPS process definition for the *time series plot* where we
describe the input and output parameters and provide a short documentation:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/climafwps/processes/wps_tsplot.py

You need to activate this process in the ``__init__`` module:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/climafwps/processes/__init__.py

You should extend the tests for the new ``tsplot`` process:

  https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo/blob/master/tests/test_wps_caps.py

An initial Sphinx documentation is part of the WPS ( ``docs/`` ) and can be made
available on ReadTheDocs_.

Test CliMAF WPS
---------------

You can install the WPS using a ``Makefile``::

  $ make clean install

Start the WPS with customized configuration for CMIP5 data archive::

  $ source activate climafwps
  $ climafwps start -c etc/ceda.cfg -d

The service will be available at the URL:

  http://localhost:5000/wps

Check the documentation on ReadTheDocs_ for details.

Use Ansible for Deployment
--------------------------

We can deploy CliMAF WPS on a host using Ansible_.

First, you need to clone the Ansible playbook for WPS::

  $ git clone https://github.com/bird-house/ansible-wps-playbook.git
  $ cd ansible-wps-playbook

If Ansible is not installed you can bootstrap the installation::

  $ bash bootstrap.sh

To install CliMAF WPS you need to edit the ``custom.yml`` configration with
the approriate options (hostname, port, CMIP5 archive), for example::

  ---
  # Configuration for CliMAF WPS
  wps_name: climafwps
  wps_repo: https://github.com/cp4cds/climaf-wps-demo.git
  wps_version: master
  wps_hostname: wps.demo
  wps_port: 80
  wps_archive_root: /badc/cmip5/data
  wps_config_template: "{{ wps_location }}/{{ wps_name }}/templates/pywps.cfg"

Run Ansible with this configration using a ``Makefile``::

  $ make play

Check the documentation on ReadTheDocs_ for details.

There is a `online demo <https://bovec.dkrz.de/processes/list?wps=climaf>`_ availble with a deployed CliMAF WPS.


.. _Cookiecutter: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _`bird-house/cookiecutter-birdhouse`: https://github.com/bird-house/cookiecutter-birdhouse
.. _CliMAF: http://climaf.readthedocs.io/en/latest
.. _Conda: https://conda.io/docs/index.html
.. _ReadTheDocs: https://climaf-wps-demo.readthedocs.io/
.. _Ansible: http://ansible-wps-playbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html
